# PyVectors
Code from my LANL internship. I tested performance of atax, gemm, and laplacian kernels on various chips.
Report here: https://drive.google.com/file/d/12ivRNCzGGmusC2kBSJWrx7A7QsfgXNct/view?usp=drive_link

**Abstract-–**As we approach the limit of Moore’s law, applications are moving to specialized processors, resulting in a fragmented and diverse hardware landscape. Simultaneously, programming languages are trending in the opposite direction, with Python dominating due to its high level of abstraction and broadly applicable features. These two forces combined make programming HPC systems a unique challenge, as programmers face a tradeoff between speed, efficiency, and portability. To address this challenge, we attempt to leverage the vectorization capabilities of NumPy and PyTorch, two popular Python libraries, to achieve relatively fast performance on heterogeneous architectures with reusable, hardware-agnostic code. Our results yield improvements of up to 107000x compared to non-vectorized array operations, with a minimum speedup of 6000x achieved across all hardware and kernel configurations tested. Furthermore, we investigate the feasibility of a Python to FPGA workflow that automates the hardware design and synthesis process through optimization of a dataflow intermediate representation of the targeted Python kernel. From a generic NumPy linear algebra kernel, we produced an FPGA binary for the Xilinx Alveo U250 device, and attained baseline results from hardware emulation. While there is room for improvement, NumPy and PyTorch offer a promising platform for hardware-agnostic scientific computing.
